I am NOT a born entrepreneur yeah not in
the slightest and I part of the reason
that my philosophies are what they are
is because I have lived them so when I
talk about the you know having a
negative voice it's because I have one
and it is aggressive when I talk about
anxieties because I had anxiety when I
talk about being able to become an
entrepreneur it's because I had to so I
didn't have the instincts in fact from
an instinct perspective I didn't have
any and I had to learn all of that now I
would say I do have good business
instincts because I've trained them over
time but I certainly didn't have them in
the beginning and in the beginning of my
business career the and this is real and
I really want people to feel what I feel
when I say this the only contributions
that I would make for probably the first
two years of being in business the only
contributions I would make to a
conference call were to say goodbye and
I remember looking forward to text I was
finally gonna get to say something but
because at least I knew enough to keep
my mouth shut when I didn't know and I
didn't understand I didn't want to look
stupid so I would just be quiet I would
listen and learn I'm very grateful to
the guys that gave me the opportunity
they would let me on the call so I was
often in rooms that I probably would
never have been allowed to be in if I'd
been in a traditional company but
because it was a startup
they just kept letting me listen in on
phone calls and stuff so that ended up
being really really extraordinary for me
but yeah I had to learn to be an
entrepreneur so why did these two yoked
dudes want to invite you in to this
startup play like what was it about you
that attracted them to you so they have
what words would they use so they
thought that I was bright they thought
that I could write and they thought we
need a copywriter so let's bring this
guy in we're basically going to get
underpriced talent and because as a
teacher you're not making much money so
they didn't have to fight very hard to
pay me what I was making as a teacher so
they could they moved me over they said
look this is our whole vision and they
were very very compelling and this is
our vision 18 months sell the company
come over be a part of this you're gonna
have what you need to finance your own
film so I thought this is amazing and I
remember asking them guys this all seems
too good to be true
and
everyone I've talked to about the job
offer you guys have made me is telling
me that don't do it like there's no
civility these guys are crazy if it
sounds too good to be true it is too
good to be true and so of course cuz no
one in my family knows startups or
anything like that and I said this isn't
a trick to get me into business is it
because you know I want to be a
filmmaker and they were like laughing
and they're like Tom don't be so
ridiculous like there are easier ways to
just get a traditional employee mm-hmm
and I was like okay yeah that makes
sense
and then and in all sincerity I think
what they saw was a kid they understood
his dream they really thought they could
make it happen and they really didn't
think it would take 15 years so while I
ended up getting sucked into business I
really don't think that was I just think
they saw somebody that they could get
more out of than they were gonna pay
right that's there and so you had an
exit from this technology play and it's
the same dudes that you started quest
with yeah yeah so I ended up working
with him for 14 years so what started
the technology company was rapidly
turning into an I don't know what this
is gonna be so at about six and a half
years I went in and quit I said I can't
do this anymore I'm moving to Greece my
wife happens to be Greek I'm gonna move
to Greece because I speak Greek but I
won't say that I'm truly fluent so I'm
gonna go there get truly fluent cut my
expenses to nothing live some meager
existence and right and I'm gonna come
back being fluent in Greek and having
you know a couple screenplays that'll
just be bulletproof and they were like
whoa whoa whoa and I said here's your
equity because by then I had earned 10%
of the company through sweat equity and
I said here's your equity back if you
sell the company tomorrow for a billion
dollars you're never gonna hear from me
I get it I'm not crossing the finish
line I shouldn't get anything for this
and that was huge for me because I
really believed at that moment that I
was walking away forever and I knew no
matter what I would never because they
had been sued by other people who felt
in previous companies and they were
always like how so gross you create
opportunity for people and I was like
they created opportunity for me I'm
walking away so I was like yeah there it
is and I'm going to go do my thing and
they said look we could do this without
you but we don't want to and that's what
I needed to hear to reconnect and to the
Brotherhood and be about something other
than the money and so I said look I've
already done the hard thing which is
quit
now let me tell you who I really am what
I'm really about what drives me and I I
thought that my primary driver was
getting wealthy and I realize now that
it's not and my primary driver is
fulfillment and chasing money does not
fulfill me and so hey I'm living the
cliche of money can't buy happiness so
you had that realization before the
money came in oh yes well yes so on
paper I was technically a
multimillionaire but let me tell you
there's a huge difference between paper
money and real life money so what when I
gave back the equity I was giving back
about two million dollars mmm but it was
just paper money it's not real right so
I don't expect some like oh my god
that's so amazing right it was you know
maybe one day it'll be worth something
maybe one but you didn't go to Greece I
did not right I didn't even make it home
and I wasn't pulling into my driveway
when they called me and said come out to
dinner with us and then that changed the
course of my life because then I could
finally say like look I want to create
value in people's lives I don't just
want to sell them something I didn't use
the words authentic at the time it's a
buzzword now but back then it nobody was
saying it but what I said was I want the
company to reflect our real
personalities who we are what we want to
do in life the things that we're
passionate about I wanted to just pour
through an everything that we do and so
we moved away from really boring
security software to something that we
were gonna be passionate about and the
phrase that I used was we need to ask
ourselves what would we do and love
every day even if we're failing because
the struggle has guaranteed the success
is not so for three very different
reasons we end up launching quest
nutrition but it was born out of that
misery it was born out of I'm never
gonna be this unhappy again I want to
feel alive I know about myself I like
community I like connection I like
seeing people being able to help them I
want to add value I don't want to steer
by money look money is important and
don't get me wrong I want to make even
more money in my life but there's a
certain way that I want to make it I
want to make it by creating things that
people value tremendously and they would
rather have them the money I don't do
hard sales tactics it just doesn't make
me feel good so there are ways to
generate tremendous wealth in your life
that are all value add Humanity Plus and
so that was the driver now part of the
reason that we ended up being so
successful is while that's now and vogue
at the time everyone thought we were
crazy we
come out talking about authenticity
about passion about community that there
wasn't social media as a phrase didn't
exist but using today's language we're
gonna do all of the socially all of our
marketing is going to be social media we
I'm gonna use storytelling I'm gonna go
back to stories I'm gonna tell people
what it means to support this company to
buy this product what does it say about
them who are they who are we and then
we're gonna step forward as people as
individuals we want people to know who
we are and we're gonna put employees
first so its employees first then
customer and when you do that and you're
building this like tight ecosystem of
people that you believe in the believe
in you it's just man it's really
extraordinary and now it's a movement
but we were early just early enough
using social media just early enough
that we just broke and it just went
crazy
[Music]